README.md, before:

SUPERSONIC
==========

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/kKO9h-gG4Qg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/AppGyver/supersonic/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/AppGyver/supersonic)
[![Dependency Status](http://img.shields.io/david/AppGyver/supersonic.svg)](https://david-dm.org/AppGyver/supersonic)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/AppGyver/supersonic.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/AppGyver/supersonic)

Supersonic HTML5 app development on [Steroids](http://www.appgyver.com/steroids). CSS forked from [Ionic](https://github.com/driftyco/ionic/), with love.

## Supersonic - simplifying your HTML5 apps

AppGyver Steroids provides a wonderful layer for integrating your HTML5 application with native device capabilities. What we found from developing applications on Steroids is that you need more. Supersonic delivers the missing pieces: you'll be able to write HTML using default CSS components that are delightful to look at, use Web Components that map your HTML to fully native interfaces, and access native APIs with more ease than ever.

*Supersonic is framework agnostic.* It's a library consisting of CSS, Javascript and Web Components, which you can use with your framework of choice. However, Supersonic comes with a bundle that integrates with [Angular.js by Google](https://angularjs.org/) for even more awesomeness.

### Getting started

Supersonic ships with compiled Javascript, CSS and Web Component assets, along with a [great icon pack](http://ionicons.com/). You can get started with them with one line of code in your existing HTML5 application. New Steroids apps will have Supersonic from the get-go.

The easiest way to get Supersonic for your existing app is to install it as a [bower](http://bower.io/) dependency:

    bower install https://supersonic-backdoor:103944e9fd881b4de88536ab5529a30c387a93bd@github.com/AppGyver/supersonic.git --save

Your Steroids application will now have `www/components/supersonic` set up. Having your application use the library is one line of code.

    <script src="/components/supersonic/dist/supersonic.bundle.js"></script>

You don't need to include the Javascript, CSS and Web Components separately, unless you really want to.

### Usage

Here's a sample of what Supersonic can do. Try this with your app on Steroids:

    <ss-navigation-bar>
        <ss-navigation-bar-title>Wow! It's mach 1!</ss-navigation-bar-title>
    </ss-navigation-bar>

Pow, there's a native navigation bar and you didn't have to write a line of Javascript.

For the rest of the story, check out the [Supersonic manual](http://supersonic.testgyver.com/docs).

## Development

### Getting started

Installing dependencies:

    npm install

Running tests:

    grunt test

For a test-and-watch-for-changes loop, use:

    grunt dev

### Publishing to bower

Compile source to a Browserified Javascript bundle and add changes to git:

    grunt build && git commit -am "update dist"

Update version tags in:

    package.json
    bower.json

Tag git version:

    git commit -m "x.y.z" && git tag "vx.y.z"

Publish:

    git push origin master --tags

Commit message:

add and document watch:build task

README.md, after:

SUPERSONIC
==========

<iframe width="420" height="315" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/kKO9h-gG4Qg" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/AppGyver/supersonic/master.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/AppGyver/supersonic)
[![Dependency Status](http://img.shields.io/david/AppGyver/supersonic.svg)](https://david-dm.org/AppGyver/supersonic)
[![Coverage Status](https://img.shields.io/coveralls/AppGyver/supersonic.svg)](https://coveralls.io/r/AppGyver/supersonic)

Supersonic HTML5 app development on [Steroids](http://www.appgyver.com/steroids). CSS forked from [Ionic](https://github.com/driftyco/ionic/), with love.

## Supersonic - simplifying your HTML5 apps

AppGyver Steroids provides a wonderful layer for integrating your HTML5 application with native device capabilities. What we found from developing applications on Steroids is that you need more. Supersonic delivers the missing pieces: you'll be able to write HTML using default CSS components that are delightful to look at, use Web Components that map your HTML to fully native interfaces, and access native APIs with more ease than ever.

*Supersonic is framework agnostic.* It's a library consisting of CSS, Javascript and Web Components, which you can use with your framework of choice. However, Supersonic comes with a bundle that integrates with [Angular.js by Google](https://angularjs.org/) for even more awesomeness.

### Getting started

Supersonic ships with compiled Javascript, CSS and Web Component assets, along with a [great icon pack](http://ionicons.com/). You can get started with them with one line of code in your existing HTML5 application. New Steroids apps will have Supersonic from the get-go.

The easiest way to get Supersonic for your existing app is to install it as a [bower](http://bower.io/) dependency:

    bower install https://supersonic-backdoor:103944e9fd881b4de88536ab5529a30c387a93bd@github.com/AppGyver/supersonic.git --save

Your Steroids application will now have `www/components/supersonic` set up. Having your application use the library is one line of code.

    <script src="/components/supersonic/dist/supersonic.bundle.js"></script>

You don't need to include the Javascript, CSS and Web Components separately, unless you really want to.

### Usage

Here's a sample of what Supersonic can do. Try this with your app on Steroids:

    <ss-navigation-bar>
        <ss-navigation-bar-title>Wow! It's mach 1!</ss-navigation-bar-title>
    </ss-navigation-bar>

Pow, there's a native navigation bar and you didn't have to write a line of Javascript.

For the rest of the story, check out the [Supersonic manual](http://supersonic.testgyver.com/docs).

## Development

### Getting started

Installing dependencies:

    npm install

Running tests:

    grunt test

For a test-and-watch-for-changes loop, use:

    grunt dev

For a build-and-watch-for-changes loop, use:

    grunt build watch:build

### Publishing to bower

Compile source to a Browserified Javascript bundle and add changes to git:

    grunt build && git commit -am "update dist"

Update version tags in:

    package.json
    bower.json

Tag git version:

    git commit -m "x.y.z" && git tag "vx.y.z"

Publish:

    git push origin master --tags
