docs/supersonic/tutorial/third-mile/index.md, before:

---
layout: docs_first_mile
title: Supersonic Documentation
header_title: Supersonic App Logic and Structure
header_sub_title: Learn the basics of modifying your app structure and logic
section_id: third-mile
subsections:
  - name: Overview
  - name: Initialising data
  - name: AppGyver Sandbox Database
  - name: Defining a Resource
  - name: Adding Data
  - name: Creating an App Scaffold
  - name: Data in your App
  - name: Three-way Data Binding
  - name: More with Data
---
<section class="docs-section" id="overview">
## Overview

In the First and Second miles, we've covered how to:

 - Create an app and get it running on your device
 - Do declarative UI and navigation
 - Style native components with CSS
 - Add logic to your app with AngularJS
 - Access device APIs

Next up, we want to tackle the last missing piece: data. Nearly all apps use data in some form, so we've ensured that it's a super smooth experience to add data to your app – regardless of the source.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="initialising-data">
## Initialising data

Before we can actually add data, we need to initialise it. Open the Steroids Connect screen (if you've closed it, run `qr` in the Steroids Development Server console to open it again), and head to the Data tab.

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data.png">

*Connect Data tab before deploying app*

Ensure you're connected to the Internet and click on "Initialize data". This will cause Steroids CLI to deploy your app to the cloud and provision an AppGyver Sandbox database for use in this app. Wait for it to finish, after which the screen will update to show the Data Manager:

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data_manager.png">

*Data manager*
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="appgyver-sandbox-database">
## AppGyver Sandbox Database

As the Data Browser will tell you, your app has an AppGyver Sandbox Database preconfigured. A data provider is basically a proxy between your app and the REST API from which your data is fetched from. They do all sorts of magic – you can read more in the [Data Providers][data-providers] guide – but for now, we just want to use the preconfigured Sandbox Database provider in our app.

The Sandbox Database is a free development database provided by AppGyver. It's not intended for full-on production use, but it's great for getting a first version of your app up and running.

Click on the AppGyver Sandbox Database to open the Data Manager.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="defining-a-resource">
## Defining a Resource

Before we can add any data, we must create a new resource definition. Click on the "Add new resource" button.

Let's create a new resource with the name `superhero` for our awesome superhero database app. After creating the superhero resource you can configure the data model for the resource. Let's keep it simple – we'll have a `name`, `alter_ego` and `publisher`. To add a new field to the data model, just type the name of the desired field and press the blue checkmark on the right side of the field:

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data_edit_model.png">

*Defining a data model*

You'll also have the option of determining the type for each field in the data model, but the default "String" is appropriate for our needs. After defining the three fields, press "Save changes to data model" to save your changes.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="adding-data">
## Adding Data

Now, you can click on the "Browse data" button in the top right side of the screen to add an actual entry to the database. Since you only have one resource defined, it will be selected automatically and display an empty resource.

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data_add_entry.png">

*Resource data browser*

Let's add a few characters by pressing the <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-pencil"></span> button – you can copy the data below:

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Alter Ego</th>
    <th>Publisher</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Superman</td>
    <td>Clark Kent</td>
    <td>DC Comics</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Batgirl</td>
    <td>Barbara Gordon</td>
    <td>DC Comics</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Deadpool</td>
    <td>Wade Winston Wilston</td>
    <td>Marvel Comics</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Scarlet Witch</td>
    <td>Wanda Maximoff</td>
    <td>Marvel Comics</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Though the Connect Screen does its best to keep up with changes, you can always click the <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-refresh"></span> button to ensure your local project has the latest configs (the actual data is always fetched from the backend).
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="creating-an-app-scaffold">
## Creating an App Scaffold

Now that we've got a few cool superheroes in our database, we want to show that in our app!

Navigate to the "Generate Scaffolds" tab. Since we only have a single resource, it's automatically selected, so you can just click "Generate". This instructs the Steroids CLI to generate a CRUD scaffold for the `superheroes` resource.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="data-in-your-app">
## Interacting with Data in your App

If you open your app project in a text editor, you'll notice we have a new Superheroes module in `app/superheroes/`. Let's make our app start from the Superheroes index, and while we're at it, disable tabs. Open `app/structure.coffee`, comment out or remove the tabs item and add a new `rootView` object:

```coffeescript
rootView:
  location: "superheroes#index"
```

Save the document, and your app will update with just the index page of our Superhero app:

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_data_scaffold.png">

*Data display in device*

Now, click on any of the superheroes to view more details. You can edit superheroes or remove them. From the index view, you can also create new superheroes.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="three-way-data-binding">
## Three-way Data Binding

If you now look at the Data Browser in the Connect Screen again, you'll see that it has updated with your modified data. As you can see if you peek inside the source code, AngularJS takes care of keeping your view in sync, and Supersonic Data does the hard lifting for syncing changes between the cloud and your device.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="more-with-data">
## More with Data

That's it! You've now got a fully functioning app with real live data bolted on. Feel free to play around, browse the docs or go to the [forums](https://forums.appgyver.com) if you run into trouble.

You can find all the rest of guides and tutorials on data in the [Data Management][data-management] section.

Happy hacking!
</section>

[data-providers]: /supersonic/guides/data/other-data-providers/
[data-management]: /supersonic/guides/data

Commit message:

no more superheroes in data mile

docs/supersonic/tutorial/third-mile/index.md, after:

---
layout: docs_first_mile
title: Supersonic Documentation
header_title: Supersonic App Logic and Structure
header_sub_title: Learn the basics of modifying your app structure and logic
section_id: third-mile
subsections:
  - name: Overview
  - name: Initialising data
  - name: AppGyver Sandbox Database
  - name: Defining a Resource
  - name: Adding Data
  - name: Creating an App Scaffold
  - name: Data in your App
  - name: Three-way Data Binding
  - name: More with Data
---
<section class="docs-section" id="overview">
## Overview

In the First and Second miles, we've covered how to:

 - Create an app and get it running on your device
 - Do declarative UI and navigation
 - Style native components with CSS
 - Add logic to your app with AngularJS
 - Access device APIs

Next up, we want to tackle the last missing piece: data. Nearly all apps use data in some form, so we've ensured that it's a super smooth experience to add data to your app – regardless of the source.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="initialising-data">
## Initialising data

Before we can actually add data, we need to initialise it. Open the Steroids Connect screen (if you've closed it, run `qr` in the Steroids Development Server console to open it again), and head to the Data tab.

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data.png">

*Connect Data tab before deploying app*

Ensure you're connected to the Internet and click on "Initialize data". This will cause Steroids CLI to deploy your app to the cloud and provision an AppGyver Sandbox database for use in this app. Wait for it to finish, after which the screen will update to show the Data Manager:

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data_manager.png">

*Data manager*
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="appgyver-sandbox-database">
## AppGyver Sandbox Database

As the Data Browser will tell you, your app has an AppGyver Sandbox Database preconfigured. A data provider is basically a proxy between your app and the REST API from which your data is fetched from. They do all sorts of magic – you can read more in the [Data Providers][data-providers] guide – but for now, we just want to use the preconfigured Sandbox Database provider in our app.

The Sandbox Database is a free development database provided by AppGyver. It's not intended for full-on production use, but it's great for getting a first version of your app up and running.

Click on the AppGyver Sandbox Database to open the Data Manager.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="defining-a-resource">
## Defining a Resource

Before we can add any data, we must create a new resource definition. Click on the "Add new resource" button.

Let's create a new resource with the name `superhero` for our awesome superhero database app. After creating the superhero resource you can configure the data model for the resource. Let's keep it simple – we'll have a `name`, `alter_ego` and `publisher`. To add a new field to the data model, just type the name of the desired field and press the blue checkmark on the right side of the field:

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data_edit_model.png">

*Defining a data model*

You'll also have the option of determining the type for each field in the data model, but the default "String" is appropriate for our needs. After defining the three fields, press "Save changes to data model" to save your changes.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="adding-data">
## Adding Data

Now, you can click on the "Browse data" button in the top right side of the screen to add an actual entry to the database. Since you only have one resource defined, it will be selected automatically and display an empty resource.

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_connect_data_add_entry.png">

*Resource data browser*

Let's add a few characters by pressing the <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-pencil"></span> button – you can copy the data below:

<table class="table">
  <tr>
    <th>Name</th>
    <th>Alter Ego</th>
    <th>Publisher</th>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Superman</td>
    <td>Clark Kent</td>
    <td>DC Comics</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Batgirl</td>
    <td>Barbara Gordon</td>
    <td>DC Comics</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Deadpool</td>
    <td>Wade Winston Wilston</td>
    <td>Marvel Comics</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Scarlet Witch</td>
    <td>Wanda Maximoff</td>
    <td>Marvel Comics</td>
  </tr>
</table>

Though the Connect Screen does its best to keep up with changes, you can always click the <span class="glyphicon glyphicon-refresh"></span> button to ensure your local project has the latest configs (the actual data is always fetched from the backend).
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="creating-an-app-scaffold">
## Creating an App Scaffold

Now that we've got a few cool superheroes in our database, we want to show that in our app!

Navigate to the "Generate Scaffolds" tab. Since we only have a single resource, it's automatically selected, so you can just click "Generate". This instructs the Steroids CLI to generate a CRUD scaffold for the `superhero` resource.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="data-in-your-app">
## Interacting with Data in your App

If you open your app project in a text editor, you'll notice we have a new Superhero module in `app/superhero/`. Let's make our app start from the Superhero index, and while we're at it, disable tabs. Open `config/structure.coffee`, comment out or remove the tabs item and add a new `rootView` object:

```coffeescript
rootView:
  location: "superhero#index"
```

Save the document, and your app will update with just the index page of our Superhero app:

<img class="tutorial-image" src="/img/tutorial/Steroids_data_scaffold.png">

*Data display in device*

Now, click on any of the superheroes to view more details. You can edit superheroes or remove them. From the index view, you can also create new superheroes.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="three-way-data-binding">
## Three-way Data Binding

If you now look at the Data Browser in the Connect Screen again, you'll see that it has updated with your modified data. As you can see if you peek inside the source code, AngularJS takes care of keeping your view in sync, and Supersonic Data does the hard lifting for syncing changes between the cloud and your device.
</section>

<section class="docs-section" id="more-with-data">
## More with Data

That's it! You've now got a fully functioning app with real live data bolted on. Feel free to play around, browse the docs or go to the [forums](https://forums.appgyver.com) if you run into trouble.

You can find all the rest of guides and tutorials on data in the [Data Management][data-management] section.

Happy hacking!
</section>

[data-providers]: /supersonic/guides/data/other-data-providers/
[data-management]: /supersonic/guides/data
