docs/supersonic/api-reference/cordova/index.md, before:

---
layout: "docs_cordova_api"
title: Cordova API reference
header_sub_title: Cordova APIs
section_id: cordova
---

# Cordova APIs

There are some Cordova APIs that have not yet been given the Supersonic treatment, but are available for use in your apps. They've all been tested to work with Supersonic, so use them at will! Naturally, these APIs are also available without Supersonic, as a part of the AppGyver wrapper.

We're working on bringing more Cordova APIs properly under Supersonic. What's more, we're not going to be satisfied with just wrapping the old Cordova APIs – the plan is to gradually replace even the native code plugins with our own Supersonic versions. Let us know what improvements you'd like to see at [contact@appgyver.com](mailto:contact@appgyver.com)!

To see the unmigrated documentation, follow the links to the official Cordova documentation below:

- [Battery status](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-battery-status/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Console](https://github.com/AppGyver/cordova-plugin-camera/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Contacts](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-contacts/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [File](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-file/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [File transfer](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-file-transfer/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Globalization](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-globalization/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [InAppBrowser](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-inappbrowser/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Media](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-media/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Media capture](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-media-capture/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Network information](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-network-information/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Ionic keyboard](https://github.com/AppGyver/ionic-plugins-keyboard#1.0.3)
- [Bar code Scanner](https://github.com/AppGyver/BarcodeScanner)

Commit message:

add installation note to cordova plugins

docs/supersonic/api-reference/cordova/index.md, after:

---
layout: "docs_cordova_api"
title: Cordova API reference
header_sub_title: Cordova APIs
section_id: cordova
---

# Cordova APIs

There are some Cordova APIs that have not yet been given the Supersonic treatment, but are available for use in your apps. They've all been tested to work with Supersonic, so use them at will! Naturally, these APIs are also available without Supersonic, as a part of the AppGyver wrapper.

We're working on bringing more Cordova APIs properly under Supersonic. What's more, we're not going to be satisfied with just wrapping the old Cordova APIs – the plan is to gradually replace even the native code plugins with our own Supersonic versions. Let us know what improvements you'd like to see at [contact@appgyver.com](mailto:contact@appgyver.com)!

To see the unmigrated documentation, follow the links to the official Cordova documentation below. Keep in mind, the Cordova documentation assumes you are using PhoneGap, so the installation instructions are incorrect. For plugin installation instructions, see [the guide](/tooling/build-service/plugins/configuring-custom-plugins/).

- [Battery status](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-battery-status/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Console](https://github.com/AppGyver/cordova-plugin-camera/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Contacts](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-contacts/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [File](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-file/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [File transfer](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-file-transfer/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Globalization](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-globalization/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [InAppBrowser](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-inappbrowser/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Media](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-media/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Media capture](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-media-capture/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Network information](https://github.com/apache/cordova-plugin-network-information/blob/master/doc/index.md)
- [Ionic keyboard](https://github.com/AppGyver/ionic-plugins-keyboard#1.0.3)
- [Bar code Scanner](https://github.com/AppGyver/BarcodeScanner)
